In this lesson we're going to look at E-6 and array's and then new things that you can do with the race.
There's a lot of really neat things that we saw earlier that we can do with the raise.
And now with the six we can do even more.
So let's first of all let's create an array.
So we just use LET and let's create or my our array and we need some values contained within here.
So let's put some random digits in there.
So I've got some duplicates in there so let's just add those in.
And now what we want to do is we want to use the find method.
So previously Prete ESX would have done something like var and we could of.
So if we want to get the number just do you.
Var A.
And we could loop through so we would take the my R.
So the my array.
And we could do find function passing an argument just pass an X and then as we find we hit return back
and we could take a look until we actually find a number that notchers could look for X and we want
one of these entries to be above 50 so whichever one is first then that's what we're going to return
back and a and then we'll Konsole log out.
So let's see what happens.
So let's refresh it and we see that we continue through the array when till we find the one that actually
matches the condition that we set out.
And this is something that we could have done in the previous version of javascript as well.
So this will work.
And now with the A-6 we have a shorter format and we know that we really shortened a lot that we can
do with functions.
So that's what we want to do.
Now let's shorten this and transform it into E.S. 6 format.
So going back to what we learned about functions and the fact arrows.
What do I do now.
Pause the video and rewrite this little snippet of code and transform it into S six format.
So go word and pause the video or show you the solution coming up so had an opportunity to try that
out.
So let's transform this one and we'll do B sort of a and my R.
And we're going to start it the same way where we've got fined and the real difference is going to be
what's actually going to be hit.
Sitting in between the function because that's mainly what we can really transform.
And we saw earlier that we can get rid of the word function altogether and if we're passing in an argument
we can simply add the argument and use the fat arrows the equal sign and the greater than sign and then
we're all ready to go to return a value.
So we don't need return any more either.
And we can just simply do X greater than 50.
And while this looks a whole lot shorter.
So let's see if it works or Consolmagno B this time and we see that these are actually identical but
this looks a whole lot shorter.
And this is ESX.
So another thing that we've got new.
So this one really isn't that new with the 6.
The only thing that was new was the way that we're getting that phunk that function and simplifying
the function code.
So let's try another one so let's do let see.
And this time what I want to do is I want to find the index value.
So we know that we were returning back 89 but we want to know what 89 index is.
And I know that I can see that here where I go 0 1 2 3 4 5.
So we know that it should return back 5.
So that's what we want to do.
We want to use the brand new find index.
So let's do my are to identify the array and this method is called find index.
And then within here we can actually copy this and paste it in.
And then next let's console log.
See.
So you can take a look and we can see if it's actually going to return back to the index or if it's
going to throw an error or something like that.
And in fact indeed it does return back that that index value.
So I've got another challenge for you.
So what I want you to do is pause the video and using the information here.
Output eighty nine without actually grabbing at Solecki you don't know where 89 is located.
You want to just do find index.
So go ahead and add that in and find the index value that's associated with 89 or you can create your
own array and create a bunch of values in that array and try to pick up one of them try to find that
index value and output it.
And then instead of putting the index value actually output the item value that's contained within their
race you will see 89 we don't want to see five.
So I say your solution for that.
So the solution for that.
So first of all we need to console log out and this one was something that we've done before where we
know that my are and if we do a find index and I know I could just copy C there.
But what I'm going to do is actually copy the whole statement there so I'm not going to take c I could
just as easily just put C in there and we know that we've got the index and that we can return that
back.
So I know that that was relatively a trick question because we could just use C and it would have been
a lot simpler so there wouldn't have been really anything new with ESX.
If we're just using that index value going out in that.
But instead we want to go and practice those short functions those fat arrows again for the functions
and just get really familiar and comfortable with using them within our code.
And there's one other thing that I want to show you within this lesson and this is going to be another
really neat math.
Another really neat component that's new with ESX and this is going to be that we can actually create
an array so we can pass in a bunch of values bunch of arguments into an array and we can create or into
a function and we can create an array out of it.
So we're not going to pass in the arguments we're not going to try to pick those up and we're going
to simply do a return and we're going to use array.
So this is a global constructor for arrays.
So basically if we do array and this is the new word that we want to look at from.
So we need to pass some values that we need to return back and if we've got a set of values here
and that's OK we'll just leave that up to that.
So now if I want to use that I can do a lot.
And let's let's use the next character so let D.
And we're going to.
You're going to we're going to use a brand new function that we've just created and we're going to pass
that value over and we're going to let d equals to make an array and then console log that out so let's
pause this refreshed and we see that we threw an error.
So this isn't the way to do it.
And what we ultimately really want to do is we want to pass these as arguments and then pick them up
within the make.
So do you remember earlier when we looked at how we can pick up those arguments.
So what are we to do now.
Pause the video and pick up these values as arguments and then added in here within that constructor
and I'll show you that solution.
So arguments and that's all it is.
So we saw this earlier.
We can that if we're not passing any arguments we can still pick up those values we'll just console
log those.
And I'll show you actually why it didn't work.
So what's happening is that it's actually expecting something different.
So if we do it within this type of format we're just passing these in.
It's not an array format.
It's not in the proper constructor format.
In order to build that array from the arguments.
And we pretty much have an array here anyway that we're passing through.
So what we wanted to do is we wanted to get it more within that proper format and we get that when we
look at arguments because we have the format within our within an array format.
And that's why that one works and the earlier one did.
So let's clear this up and let's there's one other change that I want to make.
And also if you really want to parse it in into instead of picking up the arguments if you really want
to construct it there and obviously it's not going to be as dynamic.
You can use it within an array format so essentially you're passing it in as an array.
And if you refresh it we can see that now we're still getting those same values.
But for obvious reasons we don't want to do it within this type of format because this defeats the purpose
of having dynamic capabilities within javascript and that makes it really really strict so no point
to make an array if we already have that array values set up.
And this is way more dynamic and gives us a lot more flexibility with the build.
So one last thing and I want to apply what we looked at earlier where we're finding that index again
because this is really important just get comfortable with writing the script.
So what I want you to do is create your own array constructor here so make your own arrays and set a
value and then pass some values into that function and return those back within D and then the other
thing that I want you to do as well is pick up the index value of one of the items that you're passing
in here.
So it actually doesn't matter which one you could test to.
You can do a test if you're using the same values as me and I'll quickly show you that solution coming
up as well.
So if you had an opportunity to try that out and the solution is pretty much what we did earlier so
I just want to get you to get comfortable with writing it.
And so we know that we need to specify the array name.
And then we do find index.
And then within here we have the option to go with more of the longer format that we saw earlier with
function.
Or we could do with the fat arrows.
So to just do it with the arrows so we can just have our arguments or a parameter name there and look
for a while a is equal to test 2.
And that should pick up the index value of test 2.
So it's a refresh it and we do see that test 2 is an index value.
Number one.
So go ahead and try this all out for yourself in the next lesson.
I'm going to show even more you can do with the race.
So that's coming up.